Add docs for Connections page (#118)
pganalyze/pganalyze-docs: connections/index.mdx

---
title: 'Monitoring Postgres connections'
backlink_href: /docs
backlink_title: 'Documentation'
---

> The Connections page in pganalyze tells you about the database connections,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Connections page in pganalyze contains information about database connections,
```

> using the data from the `pg_stat_activity`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the data from the `pg_stat_activity` view.
```

> Select the server to get the overall connections info, or select the database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select just a server to get overall connection info, or select a specific database
```

> as well to get more detailed data such as wait events per database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as well to get more detailed data such as wait events.
```

You can check the history of connection states in the History chart. This chart

> is using the data collected every 10 minutes. This section helps you to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is using data collected every 10 minutes. This section helps you
```

> understand the trend of the total count of connections or some unusual pattern

Reviewer: ```suggestion
understand the trend of the total count of connections or unusual patterns
```

> of the connections such as the increase of the Waiting For Lock connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
such as an increase in Waiting For Lock connections.
```

## Connection States tab

![](connection-states.png)

The Connection States tab has the History chart and the Connection Traces
panel. The Connection Traces panel shows what kind of queries are running

> currently, with the automatic refresh (will be paused after a while).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
currently, with an automatic refresh to keep the display current (it will pause after a while).
```

> You can also jump to the certain time point's Connection Traces by clicking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also jump to a certain time point's Connection Traces by clicking
```

> the specific time of the History chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a specific time on the History chart.
```

The Connection Traces panel is only available on the [Scale Plan](/pricing)
and higher.

### Lock Monitoring

> You can monitor various wait events including locks with the Wait Events tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can monitor various wait events, including locks, with the Wait Events tab.
```

The History chart of the Connection States tab also gives you the historical

> count of the Waiting For Lock state connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
count of Waiting For Lock state connections.
```

> With the Lock Monitoring, you can dig into this lock information deeper. Within

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the Lock Monitoring feature, you can dig deeper into this lock information. Within
```
or
```suggestion
With Lock Monitoring, you can dig deeper into this lock information. Within
```

> Connection Traces panel in Connection States tab, whenever the connection is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connection Traces panel in Connection States tab, whenever a connection is
```

> waiting for a lock, the background color of the row will be highlighted. For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
waiting for a lock, the background color of the row will be highlighted.
```

> the connection that is blocking other queries is also highlighted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connections that are blocking other queries are also highlighted.
```
There could be multiple separate blocking connections, right?

Author: yup

> * 🔒: the lock icon with the red highlight indicates that the query is blocking other queries, and number indicates how many queries it's blocking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* 🔒: the lock icon with the red highlight indicates that the query is blocking other queries, and the number indicates how many queries it's blocking
```

> * 🕓: the clock icon with the yellow highlight indicates that the query is waiting for other queries, and number indicates how many queries it's waiting for

Reviewer: We sort of have FontAwesome available here (see the `useIcon` hook), so we could reference the real icons. I haven't tried running this locally yet, so maybe this looks okay as is, but if you want to give that a shot, it's an option.

Author: > I haven't tried running this locally yet

This... is actually good point, me neither. How can I run this locally? Maybe I need a PR in web side to see it?

Using a real icon sounds nice to me, though I would like to check locally as I try.

> * 🕓: the clock icon with the yellow highlight indicates that the query is waiting for other queries, and number indicates how many queries it's waiting for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* 🕓: the clock icon with the yellow highlight indicates that the query is waiting for other queries, and the number indicates how many queries it's waiting for
```

> When a trivial query is taking a long time, often it's waiting for something.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a trivial query is taking a long time, it's often waiting for something.
```

> With the Lock Monitoring, you can see which queries the query is waiting for.

Reviewer: As above, I think we should do
```suggestion
With the Lock Monitoring feature, you can see which queries the query is waiting for.
```
or
```suggestion
With Lock Monitoring, you can see which queries the query is waiting for.
```

It is common that the waiting situation is "chained". For example, a query A
is waiting for a query B, and a query B is waiting for a query C. The Lock

> Monitoring supports the situation like this, and highlights query C the most

Reviewer: Same as above.

Author: ```suggestion
Monitoring feature supports the situation like this, and highlights query C the most
```

> Monitoring supports the situation like this, and highlights query C the most

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Monitoring supports situations like this, and highlights query C as the ultimate ("root cause") blocking query
```

with the lock icon with the red highlight.
In this case, you can run `pg_cancel_backend` or `pg_terminate_backend` to

> cancel or terminate the query C to unblock the query B and A.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cancel query C or terminate its database connection to unblock queries B and A.
```

> This information is available for the historical data too. Let's say the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This information is available for historical data too. Let's say the
```

database was slow and requests were timing out 3 hours ago. You can check out
the History chart of the Connection States tab to see if there were any queries

> with "Waiting for Lock" state during that time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in a "Waiting for Lock" state during that time.
```

> If so, you can click the chart to see the snapshot Connection Traces data of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If so, you can click the chart to see the snapshot Connection Traces data at
```

> that time with the Lock Monitoring information to see what kind of queries were

Reviewer: This sentence is running on a bit, so maybe
```suggestion
that time. The Lock Monitoring information will show you which queries were
```

> running and blocking and/or blocked at that time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
running, and which were blocking or blocked, at that time.
```

## Wait Events tab

![](wait-events.png)

> Wait Events history chart tells you a historical data of connections with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait Events history gives you a historical overview of connections with
```

wait events. For example, wait event `IO / DataFileRead` indicates that a
process is currently waiting for data to be read from disk or the page cache.

The chart is using the data collected every 10 seconds, but the data is

> aggregated and plotted with the 150 seconds buckets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aggregated and plotted in 150-second buckets.
```

See also [this blog post](https://pganalyze.com/blog/postgres-connection-tracing-wait-event-analysis-and-vacuum-monitoring)
to learn more about wait events.

The Wait Events tab is only available on the [Scale Plan](/pricing) and higher.

# Checks and Alerts

Connections checks and alerts are enabled by default for all your databases.

> Connections supports the following checks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Connections category includes the following checks:
```

 - [Active Queries](/docs/checks/connections/active_query)
 - [Idle Transactions](/docs/checks/schema/idle_transaction)

>  - [Blocking Queries](/docs/checks/schema/blocking_query)

Reviewer: Is it right that these are linking to `.../schema/...`?

Author: 🤦 must be copypasta error

> Each check has the different purpose and it is recommended to adjust the check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each check has a different purpose and it is recommended to adjust the check
```

> config depending on what your system requires. For example, Active Queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration depending on your requirements. For example, the Active Queries
```

> check will trigger and create a warning issue when the query is in the active

Reviewer: ```suggestion
check will trigger and create a warning issue when the query is in an active
```
do we actually check the state of the query? If not, we should probably omit that part.

Author: yes we do check (aka won't trigger the issue if the state is _not_ active)

state and running more than 30 minutes by default. If your system is known to

> have long running queries such as nightly batches, you can either extend the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
have long running queries such as nightly batch jobs, you can either extend the
```

threshold or add the `/* pganalyze:no-alert */` or `/* pganalyze=no-alert */`

> magic comment to avoid getting alerted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
magic comment to these queries to avoid creating an issue.
```

> The Blocking Queries alert is powerful to get notified when there is any query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Blocking Queries alert is convenient to be notified when there is a query
```

blocking other queries. Such situation could easily cause a system wide

> performance degradation, so you want to get notified way earlier than what

Reviewer: ```suggestion
performance degradation, so you want to be notified much earlier than for
```
I think "way" is a little too colloquial for the docs :smile:

Author: uhmm so this sentence will be "you want to be notified much earlier than for Active Queries or Idle Transactions issues", which sounds a bit odd to me 🤔

Reviewer: Heh, sorry, I guess I lost track of my train of thought across separate suggestion lines. I meant something like

>...you want to be notified much earlier than for Active Query or Idle Transaction issues.

Or we could alternately say

>...you want to be notified much earlier than for issues from Active Queries or Idle Transactions checks.

> Active Queries or Idle Transactions can notify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Active Queries or Idle Transactions issues.
```
